Update Working with Dependencies -> Learning the Basics Documentation (#29673)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/dep-man/basics/centralizing_dependencies.adoc

include::sample[dir="snippets/java-platform/dep-man/groovy/app",files="build.gradle[]"]
====

Here, `my-platform` defines versions for `moduleA` and `moduleB`, ensuring they are compatible.

Maven's BOM (Bill of Materials) is a popular type of platform that Gradle supports.
A BOM file lists dependencies with specific versions, allowing you to manage these versions in a centralized way.

A popular platform is the link:https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.spring.platform/platform-bom/Cairo-RELEASE[Spring IO Bill of Materials] which is maintained and hosted by link:https://spring.io/[Spring]:
To use the BOM, you add it to the dependencies of your project:

[source,kotlin]
.build.gradle.kts
----
dependencies {
    implementation platform("io.spring.platform:platform-bom:Cairo-RELEASE")
    implementation("org.springframework:spring-core")
    implementation("org.springframework:spring-context")
}
----

By including the `platform-bom`, you ensure that all Spring components use the versions defined in the BOM file.

== Using a Version catalog

A version catalog is a centralized list of dependency coordinates that can be referenced in multiple projects.

> You can reference this catalog in your projects to ensure consistent version management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reference this catalog in your build scripts to ensure each project depends on a common set of well-known dependencies.
```

Version catalogs do not say anything (concrete) about versions, we should not equate them to "version management"

== Using a Version catalog

A version catalog is a centralized list of dependency versions that can be referenced in multiple projects.
Reference this catalog in your projects to ensure consistent version management.

Here’s how you can use a version catalog:

1. **Create a Version Catalog File**: Create a `libs.versions.toml` file in the `gradle` directory of your project. This file will define the versions of your dependencies and plugins.
+
[source,toml]
.gradle/libs.versions.toml
----
[versions]
guava = "30.1.1-jre"
commons-lang3 = "3.12.0"
lombok = "1.18.20"
mysql = "8.0.23"

[libraries]
guava = { module = "com.google.guava:guava", version.ref = "guava" }
commons-lang3 = { module = "org.apache.commons:commons-lang3", version.ref = "commons-lang3" }
lombok = { module = "org.projectlombok:lombok", version.ref = "lombok" }
mysql = { module = "mysql:mysql-connector-java", version.ref = "mysql" }

[plugins]
spring-boot = { id = "org.springframework.boot", version = "2.5.4" }
----
+

> 2. **Enable Version Catalog in `settings.gradle`**: In your `settings.gradle` file, enable the version catalog:

Author: Correct and removed.

[source,kotlin]
.platform/build.gradle.kts
----
plugins {
    `java-platform`
}

javaPlatform {
    allowDependencies()
}

dependencies {
    constraints {
        api("org.apache.commons:commons-lang3:3.12.0")
        api("com.google.guava:guava:30.1.1-jre")
        api("org.slf4j:slf4j-api:1.7.30")
    }
}

// Publish my-platform to a repository
----

Then, you can use that platform in your project:

[source,groovy]
.app/build.gradle
----
dependencies {
    implementation platform("com.example:my-platform:1.0.0")
    implementation "com.example:moduleA"
    implementation "com.example:moduleB"
}
----

Here, `my-platform` defines versions for `moduleA` and `moduleB`, ensuring they are compatible.

Maven's BOM (Bill of Materials) is a popular type of platform that Gradle supports.
A BOM file lists dependencies with specific versions, allowing you to manage these versions in a centralized way.

Here is a snapshot of the link:https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.spring.platform/platform-bom/Cairo-RELEASE[Spring IO Platform Bill of Materials] which is maintained and hosted by link:https://spring.io/[Spring]:

[source,xml]

> .platform-bom-Cairo-RELEASE.pom

Author: Removed.

commons-lang3 = "3.12.0"
lombok = "1.18.20"
mysql = "8.0.23"

[libraries]
guava = { module = "com.google.guava:guava", version.ref = "guava" }
commons-lang3 = { module = "org.apache.commons:commons-lang3", version.ref = "commons-lang3" }
lombok = { module = "org.projectlombok:lombok", version.ref = "lombok" }
mysql = { module = "mysql:mysql-connector-java", version.ref = "mysql" }

[plugins]
spring-boot = { id = "org.springframework.boot", version = "2.5.4" }
----
+
2. **Enable Version Catalog in `settings.gradle`**: In your `settings.gradle` file, enable the version catalog:
+
[source,groovy]
----
dependencyResolutionManagement {
   versionCatalogs {
       libs {
           from(files("gradle/libs.versions.toml"))
       }
   }
}
----
3. **Use Version Catalog in `build.gradle`**: You can refer to the dependencies defined in the version catalog in your `build.gradle` file:
+
[source,groovy]
----
plugins {
   id 'java'
   id 'org.springframework.boot' version libs.versions.spring.boot
}

repositories {
   mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
   implementation(libs.guava)
   implementation(libs.commons.lang3)
   compileOnly(libs.lombok)
   runtimeOnly(libs.mysql)
}
----

> == Using Convention plugins

Author: I think in this case I will remove this section because this page is supposed to be introductory material and this is starting to feel advanced.

Each approach offers its own advantages and helps in centralizing and managing dependencies efficiently.

== Using platforms

A platform is a set of dependency constraints designed to manage the transitive dependencies of a library or application.

When you define a platform in Gradle, you're essentially specifying a set of dependencies that are meant to be used together, ensuring compatibility and simplifying dependency management:

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/java-platform/dep-man/kotlin",files="platform/build.gradle.kts[]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/java-platform/dep-man/groovy",files="platform/build.gradle[]"]
====

Then, you can use that platform in your project:

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/java-platform/dep-man/kotlin",files="app/build.gradle.kts[]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/java-platform/dep-man/groovy",files="app/build.gradle[]"]
====

Here, `platform` defines versions for `commons-lang3`, `guava`, and `slf4j-api`, ensuring they are compatible.

Maven's BOM (Bill of Materials) is a popular type of platform that Gradle supports.
A BOM file lists dependencies with specific versions, allowing you to manage these versions in a centralized way.

> A popular platform is the link:https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.spring.platform/platform-bom/Cairo-RELEASE[Spring IO Bill of Materials] which is maintained and hosted by link:https://spring.io/[Spring].

Reviewer: We updated the below snippet to use `spring-boot-dependencies`, but this link still references the Spring IO BOM

To use the BOM, you add it to the dependencies of your project:

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/managingTransitiveDependencies-constraintsFromBOM/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tag=dependency-on-bom]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/dependencyManagement/managingTransitiveDependencies-constraintsFromBOM/groovy",files="build.gradle[tag=dependency-on-bom]"]
====

> By including the `platform-bom` platform dependency, you ensure that all Spring components use the versions defined in the BOM file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By including the `spring-boot-dependencies` platform dependency, you ensure that all Spring components use the versions defined in the BOM file.
```
